hey everyone welcome to this video on
how to give a toast at a toastmasters
meeting my name is wade patterson this
is my youtube channel and i am
passionate not only about toastmasters
which i do a lot of videos about but
also communication in general in fact
impactful communication and i want you
to become a better communicator and i
try to help you with a few
videos that focus on various skills and
tips if you like this content please
subscribe it would mean so much to me
like leave a comment do all of those
things it really helps out my channel so
back to the reason you landed on this
video and that is how to give a toast at
a toastmasters meeting and the first
thing i want to say is that this is a
rule that is very easy to sign up for or
to take on as a club member often new
members are nervous to sign up for roles
but this is one of those roles that is
very simple to do and it sets the tone
you get to do it pretty much at the
start of the meeting and then you're
done and other than table topics you
probably don't have to worry about
speaking for the rest of the meeting in
our club and keep in mind every club
agenda is a little bit different not
every club includes a toast but our club
does include a toast at the beginning of
the meeting first we have our welcome
message from our president and then the
toast is given and that individual is
asked to say something for one to two
minutes and at the end of it invite
everyone to stand up raise their glasses
and cheers to whatever the toast
giver decides that we're going to cheers
about it's funny because i talk to some
new club members and they say oh i could
do table topics but i could never give a
toast at the beginning of the meeting
and to me that's crazy because
all a toast is
is it's basically table topics but you
have the opportunity to actually prepare
for it and think about what you want to
say
therefore it is something that is really
accessible for anyone to take on and my
first tip for a toast is to make your
topic relevant to the theme of the
meeting for example if your club's
meeting that week was about summer you
could perhaps tell a brief story about a
summer vacation that you were once on or
you could talk about why summer is your
favorite of the four seasons or perhaps
you could talk about why summer is
something that is actually disappointing
to you that you prefer winter however
you're trying to see the glass half full
and you bring everyone together at the
end to cheers to making the most of
summer whatever way you want to take
that speech that toast at the beginning
it should revolve around the theme of
the meeting because it's a good way to
get everyone prepared for the meeting
that's upcoming and remind them what the
theme really is my second tip for giving
a toast is
leverage the benefit of it which is the
fact that you can practice you can think
about it make sure you practice your
toast before you give it i'm not saying
you have to write out your toast word
for word in fact i think that's a
bad idea in in in general in any
speaking capacity it's never a good idea
to write word for word what we want to
say
for a toast if you're a relatively new
toastmaster and you rely on notes still
it's a good idea to just give yourself
general reminders so don't write out
your toast word for word just write a
couple of key points that will trigger
your memory when you're in front of the
group and then if you're going to refer
back to those notes do so in a subtle
way don't be holding them up here by
your head maybe set them on the podium
to the side and if you need to reference
them go ahead and reference them but do
your best not to constantly look at the
notes the other thing to keep in mind is
all of the basic skills that we learn in
toastmasters maintain great eye contact
with the audience as you deliver your
toast
leverage body language if you're telling
a story and there's something exciting
that happens make it exciting not only
with your voice and your vocal variety
but with your facial expression in your
hands that liveliness especially
considering that the toast is usually
given at the beginning of the meeting
will once again set the tone and get
everybody excited for the remaining time
in the meeting my final tip for giving a
toast is wrap it up concisely in our
club the toasts typically wrap up with
inviting everyone to stand up raising
their glasses of water and cheersing to
something cheers is that a word we'll go
with cheers so if the theme of the
meeting was summer you could say please
rise with me razor glasses and cheers to
making the most of summer
everyone repeats it
they hold up their glasses take a drink
and that's the end of the toast my tip
on this side of things is not to have
too long
of a thing that you cheers i know that
sounds confusing but what i mean is
often people will stand up they will
raise their glass and they'll say
cheers to making the most of summer and
enjoying every holiday
and then as people go to repeat that the
other club members they forget because
it's so long
keep it concise one two or three words
something that is very clear that people
will remember that is straight to the
point and that is a nice way to wrap up
your toast again if you were a new
toastmasters member don't be afraid to
take on the toast roll if your club
offers that within its agenda it is in
my opinion one of the easier roles to
take on you can prepare for it you can
practice it and then your job is done
right off the beginning of the meeting
then you can just sit back relax and
maybe you don't get cold and table
topics maybe you do but regardless you
have already gotten that speaking out of
your system you've done it for the day
your job is done and it was done right
at the beginning of the meeting i hope
that this video was helpful for you on
your toastmasters journey please
subscribe to my channel it would mean a
lot i am passionate about impactful
communication and that's my goal is to
create videos that you find valuable
thanks so much for watching and have an
awesome day